xxiv mraonucrron.

E. Tira Parnomnn errrns or Pannmraa.

2⁷. Gnaeus Naevius was a close contemporary of Livius,
for he served in the first Punic war, and brought out his
first play in 235 rao, when he was about thirty years of
age. Unlike Livius, he was of Latin stock, butas Gellius
speaks of the serperbiu Campona of his epitaph, it is gen-
erally supposed that he was born in Campania. What first
directed bis genius toward the drama was probably his
military experience in Sicily, where, as we have seen,¹
dramatis exhibitions formed an important interest in the
life of the Greek population. Naevius was bold of speech,
and in the spirit of Aristophanes undertook to assail in his
plays some of the Roman nobles. Rome, however, was not
like Athens. The Metelli, who especially resented his
attacks, had him thrown into prison (206 a.c.)—a circum-
stance to which Plautus allodes in his Miles, 211. He was
released at the instance of the tribunes of the plebs, but,
again offending, was compelled to retire to Utica, wherelhe
died about 204 mo.

The fame oi Naevius rests mainly on his epic poem, the
Bellum Punicum, a work conceived in a tboroughly national
spirit, which afterwards powerfully influenced both Ennius
and Vergil. It was written in the Saturnian measure,
doubtless because imported metros were thought to be inap-
propriate to a patriotic poem.

The same strong national temper is seen in the fact that
Naevius invented a new kind of drama, the praetecta, which
dealt with subjecte from Roman history, such as his Romu-
lus and his Clastidium, the latter celebrating the victory of
Marcellus over the (lauis in 222 rac. These, however, took
their form from the Greek. '

Naevius wrote many tragedias and comedies. The latter

¹ See above, 5 15.

 

