PREFACE.

ι Iw view of the steady progress made in Plautino and
Terentian studies of recent years, there can be no doubt
that a new edition of the Andria, with English notes, is
very much needed. It was, however, with much diffideuce
that I accepted the invitation of the general editors oi
this series to undertake such a work, but, having once done
so, 1 have striven conscientiously to produce an edition
which could bc said to represent the present state of
Terentian scholarship.

As is well known, there is more trouble iu determiuing
the text of the Andria than that ol any other play of
Terence. The Bembinus (A) is available for less than one
hundred lines, and a text must therefore be based upon
the less important Mss. I believe, however, that an editor
has no right to depart from ancient authority iu au arbi·
trary manner, aud Ι have therefore rejected many of the
conjectural readings adopted by Fleckeisen in his second
edition (1898). What principles have guided me in deter-
mining the relative value oi the Mss.,I have set forth iu
my article on The Text os the Andria os Terence in the
Transactious os the American Philolopicol Avaociotion, Vol.
XXX, 1899. In the comparatively few cases where no

Mser ancient commentator gives a possible reading, it is
ιιι

 

